[music]

Businesses run on Workday. Uniting HR and finance, Workday enables companies to make strategic decisions faster and move forever forward. [music]

But have you ever stopped to think who makes all that magic happen? Who ensures that everything runs smoothly, securely, and efficiently? It's not magic; it's the Workday platform administrator.

In this video, we'll dive into what this critical role entails, explore their day-to-day responsibilities, and show you exactly how Workday Learning Resources can help you master this in-demand career. Before we begin, make sure to subscribe and hit that notification bell so you don't miss a thing.

So, what is a Workday platform administrator? Think of them as the masterminds behind the scenes, ensuring that the entire Workday environment [music] is managed well within an organization. They are the experts who verify that the system is tailored to an organization's specific needs. We describe this role as someone who oversees the management, testing, and troubleshooting of configurations across the Workday platform.

Security is paramount. Our platform administrators are the guardians of configurable security. They meticulously maintain organization security assignments and are the [music] first to troubleshoot any access issues. They manage security groups and update business process security policies to keep everything secure and [music] compliant.

They are also the architects of an organization's workflows. Administrators configure and maintain our core business [music] processes, ensuring that they are efficient and align with our policies. This could involve adding a new step to an existing process or reviewing the process history to understand who was responsible for the next task, [music] keeping everything running smoothly.

In our data-driven world, these administrators ensure that leaders have the insights they need. They maintain and administer Workday reporting and analytics, which includes updating existing reports and dashboards, building new ones when needed, or drilling into the results to find the story behind the data.

Finally, because Workday needs to talk to other systems, our platform administrators support simple integrations with a strong focus on enterprise interface builders or EIBs. The EIB integration systems make sure that data flows seamlessly where it needs to go.

Ready to get started? The good news is that Workday offers an incredible pathway to becoming a certified platform administrator through Learn with Workday. Workday offers the Workday Pro platform administrator certification and course. This course and comprehensive certification validate your advanced knowledge in managing, testing, [music] and troubleshooting configurations across the Workday platform to support global companies around the world.

Thank you for learning more about the Workday platform administrator role and related certification with us today. Don't forget to like this video and check out the resources linked in the description below [music] to start your journey.
