[Music] Welcome to the workday reporting for business users video series. In this session, we'll unlock the power of workday reports and explore how to interact with them to gain valuable insights from your data. Workday reports have unique interaction capabilities depending on their report type. This includes column manipulation, drill by and detailed data, drill to report links, facet filtering, and interactive charts. When you run a report, sometimes you'll have an output with many columns that require horizontal scrolling. Certain reports allow you to set column preferences. You can show, hide, freeze, and reorder columns, giving you more control on how your tabular data displays. Now, let's discuss refining your data in Workday. Basset search and filtering act like a search engine for your reports. Just like you might narrow down your options on an online shopping site, facets allow you to pinpoint specific data buckets or ranges within your report. Workday reports take you even deeper with drilling and detailed data capabilities, giving you the power to view your data by additional dimensions. Now, let's explore how to drill into, view details for, and interact with a chart in a report. Meet Teresa Serrano. Teresa is a controller who is analyzing airfare expenses. As Teresa, Patrick will do a demonstration on data drilling, drill to report links, chart interaction, and report exporting. Let's explore a report that analyzes airfare expenses. In the report output, notice that there are hyperlink summarization values. This is where you can drill into your data. When you hover over the value, a down arrow icon appears. When you select the arrow, notice that you can view this value by other dimensions such as cost center or job profile. If you select the value itself, you can view its detailed data. In this example, workday displays details such as worker, airline, expense report, and amount. At the top, you can drill down even further by specifying certain criteria for this summarization. Notice that you can view the information by up to two different dimensions. Another way you can drill in your data is by accessing a drill to report link. When selected, drill 2 report links run other reports directly from the results of your original report. For example, a summary report of worker flights can have a drill 2 report link. That link can take you to a more detailed report that breaks down each worker's flight expenses. Now, let's discuss charts, graphical representations of your data. Workday reports may consist of a single chart or a chart with a table. These can be bar charts, donut charts, line charts, and more. What makes charts in Workday powerful is the ability to dynamically interact with them. For example, you can hover over the chart for more information or select a value to drill into the information further. Want to view your data differently? Just select the configure icon to choose a different chart type. You can also select configure to adjust variables such as the horizontal axis, legend, and metrics. If you want to share your findings, Workday allows you to export your report output to an Excel file or PDF. When you export the report output as an Excel file, Workday runs the report again in the background. Then you can download the file to your configured downloads location on your device. The report is also available for download from the profile menu in my reports. In this session, we've explored many ways that you can interact with your report for more effective data exploration and analysis. Thank you for taking the time to learn with Workday. [Music]
