[Music] Welcome to the Workday reporting for business users video series. In this video, we'll explore how to schedule reports in Workday, freeing you from manual report generation, and ensuring you have the data you need when you need it. Scheduling reports offers several advantages, such as efficiency, no more repetitive manual runs. You can schedule reports to run automatically at your preferred frequency, daily, monthly, or on a custom frequency. Convenience. Let Workday handle report generation in the background while you focus on other tasks. Performance. Schedule large reports to run off hours, preventing slowdowns during peak usage times. Your reports will be ready and waiting when you return to workday. And finally, flexibility. You can choose your preferred export format such as Excel or PDF, thus eliminating manual exporting. Now, let's explore how to schedule a report. Meet Logan McNeel. Logan is an HR manager who wants to schedule a monthly report to analyze how much time off employees took the previous month. As Logan Patrick will do a demonstration on how to schedule a report run, how to modify the process and how to access scheduled reports. >> In this demonstration, we'll schedule a report to run. We'll also explore how to modify a report schedule and how to access your scheduled reports. First, begin by accessing the schedule a report task from the search bar or reports related actions. Select the desired report. In this example, let's schedule a time off analysis report to show all employee time off taken from the previous month. Next, configure the run frequency. You can run a report now, once in the future, or on a daily, weekly, monthly, or custom recurrence. I can also make the report frequency dependent on the completion of another process. For this example, I'll choose a monthly recurrence. Finally, you can choose to populate the report's default prompt values. I'll leave this clear for now. I'll select okay. Now, I'll need to configure each tab. Report criteria, schedule, output, and share. The report criteria tab displays certain criteria that I need to define to successfully run the report. If a report does not have any required criteria, this tab won't display. For this time off analysis report, I could specify the value for fixed dates. However, I want to set a date variable instead. To do this, I'll select determine value at runtime. [Music] Now, I can use dynamic date variables. From the value prompt of the start date, I'll choose first day of last month. For the end date, I'll choose last day of last month. In the schedule tab, refine the monthly recurrence by specifying the months, days, and times for the report to run. You can also set the catchup behavior. If your workday environment experiences downtime, you can choose to skip miss report runs by selecting run once. Lastly, set the recurrence range. Let's have it start next month and continue until the end of next year. The output tab allows you to specify your output preferences. Select the desired output format and how long to keep the report. There are additional options such as do not output an empty report. If you select this, workday will not create an output file if the report results are empty. Finally, the share tab lets you share the report with others. Keep in mind that selecting share report output with other users authorizes the specified users the right to view the report and its data exactly as you view it regardless of their security. For this example, let's leave the default setting and not share the report. I'll select okay to complete the task. You've now scheduled your report. Notice there's a new tab that appears, additional info. This tab shows information about the schedule and the next 10 scheduled launches. To modify a report schedule, use the schedule future processes report. Select report as the process type to view your scheduled reports. [Music] From the schedule processes related actions, you can take action on your schedule process such as edit, transfer ownership, suspend, delete, and more. Once workday has run the scheduled report, you can access it in two ways. My reports and the process monitor. To access my reports, select your profile icon and then my reports. Workday lists your scheduled report ready for download. My reports is also accessible on mobile devices. Alternatively, select the process monitor button [Music] and choose report as the process type. The process monitor displays background processes that are running or have run in the past. Select a process request named open it and retrieve the report from the output files tab. In this session, we've explored how to schedule a report in Workday. By scheduling reports, you can automate data retrieval, improve performance, and ensure the information you need is ready for you at the right time. Thank you for taking the time to learn with Workday. [Music]
