Welcome to Workday HCM navigation. In this session, we'll discuss the power of objects and how to navigate Workday, including the homepage, My Tasks, applications, and the worker profile menu.

Before we explore the different ways to navigate Workday, let's discuss the Workday object model that drives navigation. Workday stores data as business objects, automatically linking related business objects together to make your data contextual and actionable. When you view a page, many of the items display as links or with a related actions icon. Links navigate you to a new page to view related data and options. A business object's related actions icon provides options for you to take action on the object depending on your security permissions.

The power of objects is that when you locate a business object in Workday, you can control navigation and reporting with ease and efficiency. When you sign into Workday, you'll arrive at the homepage, which provides you with easy access to your most relevant business objects, applications, and actionable items. The homepage has various sections, including announcements, important dates, tasks, and more, so you can effectively navigate.

The homepage also displays the "Awaiting Your Action" card with actionable items related to your role in My Tasks. My Tasks enable you to find, organize, and complete tasks quickly and more efficiently. You can locate My Tasks by selecting the My Tasks icon or the "Go to My Tasks" link in the Awaiting Your Action card. You can use My Tasks to sort and organize tasks, search for tasks by title using advanced search criteria like date ranges and filters, and save searches that will automatically categorize tasks by defining search parameters. You can also view your archive task history for up to 90 days, conduct bulk approvals, including approvals and review steps pending action, and manage task delegations. My Tasks reflect the Workday goal of making task management and completion as efficient as possible.

Now, let's discuss applications. Applications display as icons that provide you with quick access to business objects, dashboards, reports, and tasks. You can access many applications from the "Your Top Apps" card on the homepage or by selecting the global navigation menu icon. In the global navigation menu, some applications may be required and can't be removed. However, based on your security permissions, you can add, remove, and rearrange optional applications, as well as configure shortcuts to frequently used items like reports and tasks. The applications you select and how you arrange those applications in the global navigation menu will affect how they display on the "Your Top Apps" card on the homepage.

Another common way to navigate Workday is through the worker profile menu, which you can access by selecting your worker profile picture. This menu provides quick access to many important features, including your worker profile, which displays all of your important and relevant data; the site map listing all available standard reports and tasks; favorites, where you can save commonly used tasks, standard and custom reports, and business objects; and Drive, which provides access to the Workday file management space. The worker profile menu is just another way to navigate to data and resources efficiently and effectively in Workday.

In this session, we've discussed the power of objects and how it facilitates the different ways to navigate in Workday. Thank you for taking the time to learn with Workday.
