[Music]

Welcome to Workday: The Candidate Experience. In this session, we'll explore the internal and external candidate experience when applying for jobs. A positive candidate experience, even for internal applicants, is vital. After all, you want your top talent to feel valued and excited about potential career moves within your company. Whether candidates are applying internally or externally, a seamless and positive application process reflects well on your organization and can significantly influence their decision to join your company.

In this training, we'll first focus on internal job applications. Current employees and contingent workers can locate internal job posting details using the browse jobs report. Notice that this report opens the jobs hub application. We can access different tasks and reports from the navigation pane. Search criteria allow internal candidates to apply filters to their job search. When they select a job posting, the job posting details page displays. Internal applicants can apply for a job using their professional profile information or by uploading a resume. Depending on the job application business process, they might also need to answer pre-screening questions.

Once a candidate applies, the apply button is no longer visible. This means that an internal candidate can only apply once. After applying, a worker can view their application or withdraw it. Additionally, workers can monitor the status of their job application using the my applications report from the jobs hub or career worklet. They can also view pending and completed tasks from the my tasks in Workday. From a worker profile, workers can add additional job profiles to indicate job interests. Recruiting users can then use these job interests as a resource to find internal applicants who have an interest in a particular job within the company. From the navigation pane, recruiters can select the recruiting icon to view submitted applications.

Now, let's turn the perspective to that of external applicants. There are several ways an external candidate might find your organization. Whether it's from a desktop or mobile device, external candidates can find your job postings through various channels. Like the browse jobs report we viewed earlier, external applicants can also use search facets to narrow their search results to locate jobs that fit their skills and interests. Depending on the functionality of the external career site, applicants can also choose to view the job application form in a preferred language.

For every job application submitted, external candidates must complete and submit a job application form. The application form is an application wizard that guides candidates through the application process. Depending on your business needs, the job application form may include pre-screening and equal employment opportunity questions, the ability to attach a resume or cover letter, contact information, experience, application questions, voluntary disclosures, and a final review.

All right, we've explored how external candidates discover your company's exciting opportunities. Now let's focus on the application process itself. There are four primary ways that a candidate can apply.

First, applicants can apply to jobs manually. They can enter their personal details and qualifications for each job they're interested in. Next, applicants can upload their resume and then review the parsed information on the job application. This method often saves applicants time. Applicants can also apply using a LinkedIn account. To do this, they would select the apply with LinkedIn button on a job posting. This transfers their LinkedIn profile data to their Workday job application automatically. Workday then assesses the application and resume to suggest relevant skills, which applicants can choose to keep or remove.

Once the data is in Workday, the system can employ the candidate skills cloud feature. If your organization enables this feature, Workday can score candidate applications and provide details that help recruiters understand a candidate's skills and how well they align to their job requisition. Workday also presents candidates with suggested jobs based on their experience and by analyzing the jobs they previously applied to. Lastly, applicants can use their candidate home account. Candidate home stores candidate contact and qualification information from their previous job applications. This feature allows candidates to use their last job application for future applications. Workday requires users to create a candidate home account. Workday also routes additional tasks and questionnaires to candidates through their candidate home account. For applicants who have applied to at least one job via their candidate home account, Workday preloads the information from their most recent job application into any subsequent job applications.

Let's illustrate external applications by reviewing a demonstration. Meet Peter Gibbons, a candidate applying for a position at Global Modern Services. Peter is a job seeker who wants to apply for a position at Global Modern Services. He'll apply to the HR manager position through his candidate home account. Signed in as Peter, Savon will demonstrate how to submit an application for an external candidate.

I've navigated to the external career site for Global Modern Services. I could use the search facets, but I noticed that the job posting I want to apply to appears on the main page. I'll select it. [Music]

Here, the job details display. Since it's a fit for my skills, I'll select apply and then select apply manually. On to my information page, I'll complete the details on how I found this job and add some personal information. I'll skip ahead to where I've entered this info. Now, I'll select save and continue and move on to the next page in the application wizard. Next, I'll add my work experience, education, and other relevant data before continuing. [Music]

I could also upload a resume, but I'll skip that for now. Notice that I'm now on page one of the application questions. I'll answer these questions and then select save and continue. [Music] [Music]

On the next page, I'll answer some additional application questions before continuing. On the voluntary disclosures page, I'll agree to the terms and conditions. Then I'll select save and continue. Finally, I'm on the review page. Here, I'll review my information and then select submit. Workday then automatically returns me to the candidate homepage. Now that there's a completed application, I can view its status. I could also select the link to view the application. [Music]

In this session, we learned that regardless of whether your candidates are internal or external, they should have an enjoyable application experience with options to easily view and manage their applications. Thank you for taking the time to learn with Workday. [Music]
