[Music] The technology industry is renowned for being vibrant, dynamic, and fast-paced. If you're looking for a career where you solve diverse problems and continuously learn, investing in a career with workday technology is for [Music] you. At Workday, we're moving businesses forever forward by giving organizations the power to transform how they manage their people and investments. Investing in a career with Workday Technology provides many opportunities. You never stop thinking about your future, and neither do we. Do you want to work with best-in-class technology and applications? Workday brings finance, HR, planning, analytics, and spend management into one powerful system. Our platform is powered by our nextgen AI workday illuminate and fundamentally transforms how companies manage their people and their money. Do you want to be part of a growing Workday ecosystem? Workday is used by more than 10,500 global organizations across various industries from medium-sized businesses to more than 60% of the Fortune 500 with a 95% customer satisfaction rating which we've surpassed for more than a decade. And the best part is you don't have to have a technical background. No coding experience is needed as the workday architecture is configurationbased. Workday is boldly leading global organizations of all sizes forever forward. By building Workday skills, you have the opportunity to work with our global customers of all sizes and industries or with one of our many workday partners who play a critical role in delivering the tools and expertise customers need to thrive in the future of work. Demand for Workday talent is increasing as more companies look to Workday to enable their digital transformation and strategic growth. So whether you are a seasoned professional or just starting out, if you are interested in a career with workday technology, take the first step to upskill with learn with Workday, which enables individuals to build new skills and accelerate their career. You can start with the Workday Basics series and earn a Workday digital badge and become a member of the Learn with Workday talent directory where Workday customers and partners can connect with Workday talent. And for more information about Workday, visit learnwithworkday.com. Thanks for watching. [Music]
