Welcome to the workday reporting for business users video series. In this video, we'll explore the power of people analytics and how data analysts, business partners, and executives can use it to make better informed workforce decisions. Workday offers a comprehensive suite of reporting and analytics tools designed to provide valuable insights into your people data. What sets People Analytics apart is its ability to leverage personalized augmented analytics, bringing to light potential vulnerabilities and hotspots that might otherwise go unnoticed. At the heart of people analytics lies Storyteller, an augmented analytics engine. Storyteller employs intelligent tools such as artificial intelligence, machine learning, and natural language generation to analyze, visualize, and deliver actionable insights from your data. So, how does it all work? Let's start with analysis. Storyteller meticulously analyzes hundreds of millions of workday core transaction data points, identifying patterns and trends within your workforce data. It identifies anomalies, highlighting areas within the organization that deviate from the norm, indicating potential areas of concern or opportunity. As a result, Storyteller surfaces monthly insights, focusing your attention on the most critical workforce trends. It uses natural language generation to explain these insights in clear, concise terms. This makes it easy for the everyday end user to understand the insights and take action. To access people analytics, simply navigate to the search bar, enter people analytics and select the report to open the dashboard. The people analytics dashboard provides a user-friendly interface for exploring your workforce data. The overview tab presents suggested business questions and insights. These are statistically significant metrics that people analytics recommends focusing on for the current month. At the top of the dashboard, you'll find several topic area tabs highlighting specific areas of your organization, such as diversity and inclusion, organization composition, and retention and attrition. The display topic areas may vary depending on your organization's configuration. The KPIs or key performance indicators tab displays the most vital metrics across all topics providing a high-level overview of the health and performance of your organization. Let's explore a topic area. Each topic area provides the following business questions, help text, focus insights, and visualizations. The refine data button allows you to filter the insights, enabling you to focus on specific dimensions of your organization. Now, let's explore focus insights. Focus insights are the core of people analytics. They show how people analytics metrics are performing. Let's select view more to get more information about this focus insight. Within a focus insight is a graph. You can interact with your graph by hovering over the data points to view more details. Below the graph, you can view an insight's top drivers, which are factors that are impacting this metric. You can also view an insight's detailed data, which are underlying data points that you can explore further. In the dashboard, you'll notice that there are two types of focus insights, trend insights and gap insights. A trend insight analyzes the trend of a single population. For example, people analytics might detect a significant variance of the female representation of managers from its historic state to its current state. You can compare that to a gap insight which analyzes the deviation of one group from another. For example, people analytics might detect a significant variance of female representation in one org versus another. Now, let's explore a KPI. KPIs offer a summary of the overall health and performance of your organization. In a KPI, you'll find details of the metric being evaluated, such as the comparison, baseline, and summary. You can also analyze trend and detailed data. Additionally, people analytics surfaces business questions. Business questions are relevant, thought-provoking questions that Workday provides to guide your analysis. Need more context? People Analytics provides help text for business questions and KPIs. Select the question mark icon to view key trends and metric calculation. You can also select learn more to access the workday people analytics user guide on workday community. To share your insights, you can download and export data from people analytics to use for presentations, discovery boards, and other resources. You can download an insight as a PNG file, export detailed data to discovery boards, or export an image of the insight to a slides presentation. When you download or export your insights, note that downloaded or exported insights are static snapshots. they aren't dynamically linked to people analytics. Now, let's wrap things up by reviewing how you might use people analytics in your broader analysis strategy. First, identify insights. Start with people analytics to find statistically significant data insights. Next, consider your business goals. Analyze how the insights affect your existing and potential business goals. Then, deepen your analysis. Utilize other workday reporting and analytics tools such as reports, worksheets, and discovery boards for further exploration. Finally, develop actionable goals. Create business goals based on the data presented by storyteller and recommend actions that leadership can take to achieve those goals. That sums up how to access people analytics, navigate the dashboard, and interpret insights. People analytics is a call to conversation. Use it as a starting point to take action and drive meaningful change within your organization. Thank you for taking the time to learn with Workday.
