[Music]

Welcome to Workday Recruiting Referrals. In this session, we'll discuss how to create referrals and the reports you'll use to manage them.

Have you ever seen an opening in your organization and thought, "Hey, I know someone that would be a great fit"? Referral recommendations made by current employees for openings within the organization are highly valuable. When you use employee referrals in Workday Recruiting, workers and users can create referrals or send job application invitations to qualified individuals.

Employees can easily refer an external candidate through job listings. When a worker creates a referral, that referral becomes a prospect, not a candidate. To become an active candidate for a position, the prospect must apply directly to a job or have a recruiter create a job application for them. Your organization's referral process might include a review step that alerts the recruiter to newly submitted referrals. If your organization's process doesn't include a review step, you can access this information through reports or notifications.

Here's an example of the refer a candidate task. Prospects created through the refer a candidate business process are only considered referrals after the business process event is complete. While on this task, your organization might choose to display help text for certain fields. This example shows help text for the contact information section. However, there are other use cases as well.

Let's say your company has a referral policy that you want workers to review. You can display the policy information as help text in the refer a candidate task. Your organization may use notifications to notify recruiters of new referrals. You can use notifications to invite referrals to apply for a job. Depending on your tenant, when you send an email to a referral from the browse jobs report or the refer a candidate task, the system will automatically include a link to the job posting on your external career site. Individuals automatically become active candidates when they apply to a job directly.

There are four ways to refer a candidate:

1. The refer a candidate task.
2. The refer button on an internally posted job.
3. The create a referral task where a recruiting user creates a referral on behalf of someone else.
4. A job application created using social media share options.

The first way a current employee can refer a candidate is by using the refer a candidate task. When creating a referral, the employee must enter some basic information about the referral. This includes their name, a phone number or email address, and the job or job area. Additionally, a worker can include supplementary details on how they know the referral or why the referral is a good candidate for the job or job area.

Workers can also refer someone from the details page of an internal job posting. Workers use the browse jobs report to locate a job. If a job is posted both internally and externally, a refer button displays on the details page. Selecting this button initiates the refer a candidate from internal career task, which is similar to the refer a candidate task. The difference here is that the requisition you are referring for displays.

In this example, referring a candidate sends a referral questionnaire to the worker's My Tasks in Workday. Whether a referral triggers a questionnaire depends on your organization's business process. As a recruiter, you may need to create referrals on behalf of your workers. Use the create a referral task to enter a referral on behalf of a worker in your organization. This task includes the additional required field "referred by" to indicate who should receive credit for the referral.

Internal workers can also use email or even their social network to share jobs or evergreen requisitions posted internally or externally, if your organization allows it. Workers can select the social media icon on the job description page of the post. Then the worker can sign into their social media account. Workday creates a new posting with the "We're hiring" header and displays a link to the external job posting. If needed, the worker can edit the defaulted text before sending the link. Afterwards, if the candidate applies using the worker's social media link, Workday automatically assigns the worker as the referrer.

Recruiters can easily view referred candidates, too. From the recruiting hub, you can organize the page to display the new referred candidates card. The card only displays the first five candidates. To display all referrals, you can select the "view all candidates" link. Workday also delivers some reports to enhance managing referral candidates.

Let's cover those now. The My Referrals report shows workers a list of their referred candidates. The My Referral Activity Report allows workers to view the activity of referrals they submitted. The Referrals report lets recruiters view a list of referred candidates by job requisition, job family, recruiting stage, relationship, comments, and date referred. Finally, the Referrals Without Job Applications report displays a list of referred candidates who have been submitted but don't have a job application yet.

In this session, we reviewed the various ways an internal worker can refer a candidate. We also covered several referral reports that assist with managing referrals. Thank you for taking the time to learn with Workday.

[Music]
