[Music] Welcome to the workday reporting for business users video series. In this video, we'll explore how to leverage workday dashboards and worklets to enhance your daily workflow and data interaction. These powerful tools provide personalized access to critical information and streamline your navigation within the workday ecosystem. Let's start with dashboards. Dashboards organize useful information onto a single page. They're your personalized command centers, giving you a clear overview of everything you need for specific tasks or areas of responsibility. Within the dashboards are worklets. Worklets are like handy widgets that give you quick snapshots of important information. In addition to dashboards, worklets can also appear on the homepage. In a dashboard, worklets display as tiles, whereas on a landing page, such as the homepage or workbench, they appear in a menu list or as icons, which are sometimes called apps. Let's discuss customization and navigation. Workday empowers you with a high degree of personalization. You can tailor your homepage by adding, removing, and rearranging optional worklets. Within a dashboard, select the gear icon to configure the worklets. Don't need a worklet? Remove it. Want to add a quick link to your favorite report? Add it as a worklet for easy access. You get to prioritize the information that is most relevant to your role and responsibilities. Dashboards often have tabs to organize information even further. A team management dashboard might have tabs for recruiting and onboarding, learning and development, and talent and performance, each with its own set of relevant worklets. Many worklets are interactive. For example, you can select graphs to explore the data in more detail. When you select a worklet's gear icon, additional options display, such as refresh, download to Excel, view more, export to worksheets, and more. These options vary depending on the worklet's configuration and type. Some worklets have the edit settings option, which allows you to change the prompt values on the worklet level. Want to view job changes for a specific date or location? Just select it from the prompt and the filtered information displays. To restore the default prompt values, select restore default settings. Instead of filtering information on the worklet level, a dashboard might have prompts that apply on the dashboard level affecting all worklets within. Dashboards also have menus which act as gateways to various workday tasks, reports, and even external resources. These menus streamline your workflow by providing direct access to frequently used functions. At the top of your dashboard, you may notice some announcements. Your workday administrator can use these to share important updates or reminders with everyone who uses this dashboard. Note that while it might be tempting to load your dashboards with tons of information, too many worklets or complex reports can slow things down. For best performance, remember to keep your dashboards clean and efficient. If you notice that things are running slowly, talk to your workday administrator about optimizing your dashboard. With dashboards and worklets, you can unlock the full potential of workday, transforming it into a truly personalized and efficient platform for managing your work. Don't hesitate to experiment with different configurations and explore the diverse functionalities available to you. Thank you for taking the time to learn with workday. [Music]
